1) This round of commenting focuses on general structure and key idea of the manuscript.
2) The current title is for a small while very important issue, nonnegativity. The key structure for coupling CLM with PFLOTRAN is one important task to support the current paper. I have no idea of the different efforts for CLM-PFLTORAN coupling publications; but I would like to suggest using a more general title for the paper and link all products into one series. Something like “Coupling a reactive transport model with a global land surface model for mechanistic biogeochemistry representation: 1. Model Development”. It will be followed by a series of products for this effort, something like, “2. Addressing Nonngeativity”, “3. Hydrology”, “4. Sensitivity analysis and validation” etc.
3) Line 13, implement CLM subsurface biogeochemical reaction in CLM-PLFOTRAN; suggestion: the objective of this work is to show the key component of the development of CLM-PFLOTRAN framework, focusing on…
4) Line 15, we implement biogeochemistry reaction network in CLM (i.e. decomposition, nitrification, denitrification, and plant nitrogen uptake)
5) The instruction section is not very clear; the first part was used to introduce the problem of negative value for two different time steps. Suggest to start with three other paragraphs, first shows how general land surface model simulate biogeochemical processes and its advantages and disadvantages, the second shows how reactive transport models as general to simulate biogeochemical processes and its advantages and disadvantages, the third paragraph shows the importance and implication of couple them together. What is the reasons to couple two models together, and what are the advantage and disadvantage, of these disadvantages, the negativity is one of the most important and fundamental issues need to be fixed before moving forward. The coupling CLM with PFLOTRAN is ongoing under support of DOE and the negativity is a big issue to be solved, therefore, the objective of this study is to explore different approaches or develop an approach to address this issue.
6) In the biogeochemistry section, it is not needed to introduce the CLM biogeochemistry and PFLOTRAN in a detailed text; since all of them have been published. I agree we should have these information in this paper; I suggest you keep the primary content and put the rest into a supplementary online materials and cite the corresponding papers.
7) I like the section 3. Approaches, a table to summarize the key information and advantages of these approaches will be valuable for readers.
8) Before the conclusion section, a section for potential next steps is needed. You can put the other efforts such as hydrological coupling, a global application, into the context.
9) In Figures 2 or 3, adding the comparison of the new approach with the problematic simulation with negative value will convey clear information what is the problem and how the new approach solve that. The reasons are: 1) not all ecosystem ecologists understand the problem clearly (I understand it little bit although we have talked about it many times); 2) illustration is better than a hundred words.
10) Overall feeling is the current version is too technical, little bit focus on science will be valuable. Particularly in the discussion section, how this approach will be using to understand 3-D soil processes, and how it can be used to understand mechanistic interaction between plant and soil, etc.

